

REV: need a good method to do data storage and updates that is robust across machines and convenient...

REV: individual CSVs is one way but NASTY, and difficult to keep track of meta-CSVs.

REV: better to have one way to specify where things are stored.


One approach: BIDS format. (like that python format?) MNE?

PyNWB?

Of course backend will be ZARR....preferably with locks for simultaneous access? Problem is if implementation is via filesystem or otherwise?

Leave it up to user to stop threads/machines/hosts from reading/writing same file at same time?

I.e. only let one do a subject at a time...

User has to plan out their pipeline, or define pipeline and the have us compile it into a graph which has no clashes of parallelism.

Let us "export" to bids format maybe?

Keep my own format, or use theirs?

I still must "define" some scaffold.


Requirements:

Accessible from multiple threads and/or multiple MACHINES (hosts) at same time. Preferably via filesystem access, although filesystem-based locking is not ideal.

Storage of many datatypes/data in same location, sorted with links to metadata/subject/experiment etc.

Want 'class-based' access, like ORM? Problem is that database is nasty for accessing directly.

Best idea is to combine database for high-level stuff (metadata/etc.) and then that will specify file locations and structure?

Basically HDF5, problem is HDF5 also has problems with locking and multithreading/parallel access (even just reads).



Ideal to keep 'all data' together, so history can be seen. Problem is that it will be big.

We want a way to extract only the results also, to be copied...


Then export to e.g. BIDS format? Specify workspace etc...
Need a way of storing spike data etc., all in one place, to link shit together. Need a good way of accessing it..."naturally"




Need simultaneous/safe way of writing, like the one I had before. I was testing the ZARR thing -- do that first?

Problem is also agreeing on "format" to store in (i.e. hierarchical structure/names of databases/names of metadata "files", etc.).

--> Easiest is offer hard-coded functions which automatically access correct names, for "common" tasks.



#neuroconv
https://neuroconv.readthedocs.io/en/main/conversion_examples_gallery/combinations/spikeglx_and_phy.html


Neuroscience Without Borders (NWB).

Best is to output to some "BIDS" format (automatically?). I.e. separate by 'session'? But how will user know 'session'. Have it included together. Problem is that 'session' is what? A trial? A task? A condition? A session should not include multiple "conditions" I assume. How about "run"?

OK, add 'events'  tsv to talk about condition I guess.

So within session there will be many video trials.

How to actually process them with saliency etc.? Do it all in here? Need to keep track of full null model etc. for sampling.

Better to let user describe their own "ontology" (hierarchy)? Or have one "fixed" which they have to conform to?

Confusing representation of "trials" "blocks" "sessions" etc... "events"?

Just do CSV for now is fine, problem is adding additional columns is very wasteful. Better to not use CSV, and/or use denser representation (ZARR).

Problem for simultaneous access reading/writing. This is another main issue. File locking.




Primary issue is not only "data storage" and front-end, but how to "represent" things. If user can just access raw xarray they can fuck it up.
So, better to have "protected" functions to access stuff.



Also, putting arbitrary dictionary names is bad, but honestly it's how user will built his own "ontology/schema"?

So, make it "flexible" (with raw names) and then "specialize" it? I.e. add "sensor type" and "class" and "synch method" or something?

Just add the raw data, and then let user "create" his own new "synchronized" guys in some kind of "derivatives" or "processed"?


How to handle separating/concatenating for e.g. sessions/trials?


Better to do this for gaze data than use some kind of "overall" database? Problem is accidentally deleting original? How about copying?

One problem is if I use a filesystem, it's nice but many small writes will cause issues (for e.g. cephfs). Better to use RADOS kind of object storage...


How about "document" database? In my case it's basically a simplified document database. Downside? Note zarr can use online store e.g. S2 etc.


let user create that side of things?



Start with only gaze I guess, and do appropriate corrections. Link it with e.g. peyeutils for reading stuff?


Make the store a kind of wrapper that can just separate "trials" and "tensors" and stuff into some 'categories' (with metadata),
and communicate with data of various types, e.g. add pandas DF or export to it, etc.

Types will be e.g. "event" types, "slice" types, which user can set separately in "named tensor" type things. Problem is "synchronizing" between
them e.g. for derivatives. Specify some kind of "time base" for each? I.e. a reference time. Time-reference or unit-reference? There needs to be a "space" for each variable...not just units, but space.

Add/update/delete.


How about for "splitting" stuff? Add it as new "derived" in a trial? I.e. have a separate "wrapper" around it which specifies trials/data that has been extracted/derived from other (i.e. is subset of) other single, or is a combination of multiple. And then "re-add" to the data.

Specify a "zero time" for each, in reference to a specified time (of a specified variable) of another tensor.

PEYEUTILS "peyeutils fv" or something?

These are all "read-in" type things. 

How to REPRESENT (and easily access etc.)

Convert everything to DF will not work if too large....so maybe use numpy "named arrays"? Representation is fine (same), columnar?
Ddatatypes will be float64 though...

Need some way of "backend vectorizing it" the whole point...of using e.g. xarray...


OK great...
Problem: filesystem? No, can use rocksdb. Fine.

So, zarr/icechunk is ideal.

I just need to do it correctly, use XARRAY. Problem is how to 'orgainze' it, or leave it up to user?

What are my requirements:

1) in/out of pandas DFs (or numpy structured arrays) (record arrays, which allow array.VAR)
2) "units" and etc., "updates"? (i.e. derivatives).
3) multiple 'datasets' (groups of tensors?) and 'dataarrays' (tensors), which have named columns (or not?)
4) Methods to "align" clearly the things, but names will be arbitrary (which is bad) so need to keep track of them.
-> But, want it to be flexible enough for user...e.g. arbitrary keywords/parameters.

How to handle "hierarchical" concepts such as events with start/end?
I.e. "zeros" with offsets...


So there are both "units" (e.g. seconds) and "coordinates"? (i.e. zeroed coordinate), and we transform (or resample?) to others.

Every tensor (dimension?) must have a coordinate?

How can I access/reference or update them without reading them in and then re-writing them?


I.e. a "reference" to a tensor/array will be in a memory copy of it... BUT I want to modify it "in place"...

Just the dataset? Or?
