
Quality control:


1) Detect "physiologically" unnatural periods i.e. artifacts (based on e.g. Hz, oscillation, fourier transform, etc.)
For example, nose is detected as "pupil" (with IR reflection off nose peak as CR). -- common in eyelink with kids leaning back.

2) Detect "oscillations" or drift (e.g. in FMRI study) based on some known/correlations? Drift away from "center"? Or estimate as linear
from start/end? Or per 1-minute chunk...? Or correlation with out-of-scanner (or with "typical" whole-video distribution of all patients/subjs?).

3) Remove "unrealistic" eye movements based on physiological properties like main sequence error bars? Could check "video" to see what they
are actually looking at (does it make sense) -- but that is a lot of work.

4) Remove "blinks" -- combine blinks/saccades into single events (with low ISI)

5) Compute ISI (both saccs/blinks). What is "intersaccade drift" (of other models such as remodnav?). Right now I classify a "fixation".

6) For wearable trackers -- How about "subtracting" detected head accelerations (combine with it to classify as "VOR" or "VOR + OKR" or "pursuit" (or drift?)).

7) Binocular combination based on eye distance (pixels? DVA? DVA is meaningless...) (after "sane" filtering of eye movements based on e.g. fourier transform, physiological parameters such as eye speed, ISI, etc.) -- PROBLEM: fMRI EPI caused "unrealistic" oscillations, or e.g. bad IR or vibrations cause weird oscillations. We can ignore/filter those out separately? And use times of "no eye moements" (at normal rate) to filter out likely other artifacts...

OR handle each eye separately, but remove "bad eyes" (periods) first based on unnatural behavior.

8) "Shifted" (shuffled) and error-added values to compare (null models). -> To check both size (resolution)-based correlation, as well as suprious correlations based on different errors (either constant error per subject, non-linear error in one direction possibly with warp based on X/Y position, or random (gaussian etc.) error per time-step (or random walk?). Best is simply "linear" error in one direction per model (or, train a model using similar "calibration" with each point having a certain error in a random direction and random amount... Likely error is <5 deg, probably more like 2 deg with error up to 4 in some cases (looking at my watch?). And due to head movement.

